
> Connecting to Database:
$ psql –h db              

> a3data.sql : drop and create the tables then insert the data
    \i a3data.sql

> p1.sql : displays data of all the transactions of a given customer
    \i a3data.sql
    \i p1.sql
    select q01('Doc');

> p2.sql : displays data of the customers who have transactions with a given vendor.
    \i a3data.sql
    \i p2.sql
    select q02('Esso');

> p3.sql : inserts a new customer record (tuple).
- Whatever value the user passes for account and cbalance variables,
the program auto increments account number and sets ZERO to cbalance.
    \i a3data.sql
    \i p3.sql
    select q03(4, 'abdullah', 'ONT', 0.00, 3228);

> p4.sql
- After the commands below the program prints the required values if there is a transaction. p3.sql is needed to see added customers have no transaction yet.
If not, it prints customer number and "no transaction".
    \i a3data.sql
    \i p3.sql
    select q03(4, 'abdullah', 'ONT', 0.00, 3228);
    \i p3.sql
    select q04();

> p5.sql
 - calculates the total amount of transactions of every vendor in the transaction table, and add the total amount to the vendor’s current balances.
    \i a3data.sql
    \i p5.sql
    select q05();
 
> p6.sql
- charges each vendor a service fee that is 4% of the vendor’s balance, and subtracts the service fee from the balance. The program then displays the name of each vendors, the fee charged, and the new balance.
    \i a3data.sql
    \i p6.sql
    select q06();

> p7.sql
- charges a service fee for each customer whose current balance is greater than the credit limit and add the charge to the balance. The service fee is 10% of the portion over the credit limit. The program then displays the name of each of such customers and the new balance.
    \i a3data.sql
    \i p7.sql
    select q07();

> p8.sql
- adds a new transaction. Each time the program is executed, it takes a vendor number, an account number, and an amount from the user. The program first checks the validity of the vendor number and account number. The transaction number is generated by the program. The date of the transaction should be the date on which the program is executed
and assigned by the computer automatically. The program stores the new transaction into the transaction table, it then updates the balances of the related customer and vendor with the amount of the new transaction. It then displays the new transaction, and the updated customer and vendor records.
- validity of the vendor number and account number:
1. checks if they are integer type
2. checks if they exist on vendor and customer tables
3. checks if they are more than ZERO
    \i a3data.sql
    \i p8.sql


*** MY NOTES ***

> psql commands: 
To list all the psql commands
                             user_id=> \?
To get help on syntax of SQL command       
                             user_id=>\h
To quit from the database        
                             user_id=>\q
To list all the databases        
                             user_id=>\l
To list all the tables in your database       
                             user_id=>\d
To show the definition of a table        
                             user_id=>\d <tableName> 

> How ro run:        
    user_id=>\i filename.sql    
    EX: \i f01.sql 

> run a function:
    user_id=>select funcName();
    EX: select q03('Esso', 'Waterloo');     
